<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>13. Controlled Deliveries</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>13. Controlled Deliveries</strong></h2>

<p>Seizure is not the only option available to you when you discover a shipment of fraudulent medicines. Often, the person who is detected in possession of the fraudulent medicines is not the person who is making the most from the crime. Controlled deliveries are a useful technique allowing you to monitor the movement of illicit goods, and may help to identify the destination of contraband, and the main people involved in trafficking.</p>

<p>Consider these steps when planning a controlled delivery:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Have you confirmed that the medicines are fraudulent?</li>
	<li>Do you have the appropriate authority to conduct the controlled delivery?</li>
	<li>Do you have cooperation from national and international counterparts?</li>
	<li>Is there sufficient time to launch an operation?</li>
	<li>Be careful not to disturb the goods arousing suspicion.</li>
	<li>Replace some of the contraband with substitutes.</li>
	<li>Where possible use a tracking device.</li>
	<li>Where possible use an integrated listening device/video camera to record the opening of the packages by the suspect.</li>
</ul>


</body></html>