<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide07/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>9. Identification of fraudulent medication</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>9. Identification of fraudulent medication</h3>

    <p>Fraudulent medications are by their very nature designed to represent the original and to the inexperienced will
        look like the same thing.</p>

    <p>However, there are several tell-tale signs that you can use to identify if a medicine appears to fraudulent.
        These include:</p>

    <h6>Visual inspection</h6>

    <ul>
        <li>Of the package.
            <ul>
                <li>Check print quality.</li>
                <li>Check if the security seal has been tampered with.</li>
                <li>Check if the hologram has been broken.</li>
                <li>Check the packaging for UV security features.</li>
                <li>Check for misspelled words.</li>
                <li>Check the quality of the packaging.</li>
                <li>Check that the batch number, expiry date and manufacturers address are the same on the primary and
                    secondary packaging.</li>
                <li>Check if the country registration or trace number is properly printed.</li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li>Of the dosage blisters.
            <ul>
                <li>Check for spelling mistakes.</li>
                <li>Check for cracks and chips in the medicine.</li>
                <li>Excessive powder and/or pieces of tablets at the bottom of the blister.</li>
                <li>Hardening or softening, cracking, swelling, molting, discolouration of the capsule shell.</li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>

    <h6>The price</h6>

    <ul>
        <li>Fraudulent medicines may be cheaper than the original.</li>
    </ul>

    <h6>Source</h6>

    <ul>
        <li>The source of the medicines is also important. Is it logical for these medicines to be manufactured in the
            country of origin? If in doubt do some research.</li>
        <li>You should research what medicines are lawfully manufactured in your country and that of your neighbor.</li>
        <li>Is the manufacturers address traceable? Does it contain the exact address of manufacture of just the
            country name?</li>
    </ul>

    <h6>RFID tags</h6>

    <ul>
        <li>Does the RFID tag on the packaging match the drugs?
            <ul>
                <li>You can scan these RFID’s using a bar scanner on your phone.</li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>

    <h6>Covert Security Features</h6>

    <ul>
        <li>If in doubt contact the pharmaceutical company who makes the medicines to determine if there are covert
            security features on the packaging.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Given the vast quantities of original and generic medicines available on the market and the different security
        features that may be present the best course of action is to contact the pharmaceutical company and/or subject
        the seizure to forensic analysis.</p>

    <p>You may need to do this to ensure a successful conviction. Confer with your prosecutor in relation to forensic
        analysis.</p>

    <p>Here are several links to major pharmaceutical companies that may help you in the identification of their
        products:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>https://www.sanofi.com</li>
        <li>https://www.jnj.com</li>
        <li>https://www.merck.com/index.html</li>
        <li>https://www.novartis.com</li>
        <li>https://www.abbvie.com</li>
        <li>https://www.gilead.com</li>
        <li>https://www.gsk.com</li>
        <li>https://www.amgen.com</li>
        <li>https://www.pfizer.com</li>
        <li>https://www.roche.com</li>
    </ul>

</body>

</html>