<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide07/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>6. The Internet and Fraudulent Medicines.</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2><strong>6. The Internet and Fraudulent Medicines.</strong></h2>

    <p>The internet has revolutionised the way we live. As technology has developed so too has the way that criminals
        use this technology to facilitate their illegal activities. The advent of web-based encrypted communication
        applications, email, internet banking and the increased sophistication of mobile telephones have provided
        criminals with greater flexibility, security and reach.</p>

    <p>The smuggling of fraudulent medicines facilitated via the internet is a major issue for law enforcement and
        health departments with an estimated 50% of all medicines sold on the internet being fraudulent. Fraudulent
        erectile dysfunction medication (Viagra and Cyalis) are particularly prevalent and are often sold through links
        on internet porn sites. There are also many websites selling discounted medicines which are actually fraudulent
        on the internet. As quickly as these websites are shut down by law enforcement agencies others spring up in
        their place.</p>

    <p>Often these websites are run by organised crime groups but terrorists’ groups such as Al Qaeda and Hezbollah
        have also been known to offer fraudulent medicines. Often ancillary crimes such as money laundering and fraud
        are directly linked to the online supply of fraudulent medicines.</p>

    <p>In addition, the criminals running these websites or selling these fraudulent medicines will often communicate
        between themselves and prospective clients using encrypted web-based platforms including:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Facebook.</li>
        <li>Line.</li>
        <li>WeChat.</li>
        <li>WhatsApp.</li>
        <li>Messenger.</li>
        <li>Snapchat.</li>
        <li>Telegraph.</li>
        <li>Instagram.</li>
        <li>Alibaba.</li>
        <li>Zalo.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>While these platforms make it easier for criminals to commit crime, they also present opportunities for
        investigators. You can use them as possible entry points for undercover investigators and for collecting
        intelligence and potentially evidence. Never use your own account to communicate with suspects on any of these
        sites. You should create or utilise covert accounts for your communications.</p>

    <p>Should you communicate with suspects on these sites with a view to collecting evidence remember to:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Ensure that your actions are legal within your jurisdiction.</li>
        <li>Ensure that you have sought the permission from your supervisor.</li>
        <li><strong>Always use a covert account.</strong></li>
        <li>Screenshot the suspects profile – this can be changed by them at a later date.</li>
        <li>Screenshot any messages between you and the suspects.</li>
        <li>Record any videos or messages they send to you.</li>
        <li>Always ask for proof of possession – ask for a video with your covert name and the date.</li>
        <li>Do not share your photograph with a suspect.</li>
        <li>Refrain from talking via video with the suspect.</li>
        <li><strong>It is imperative that you know the market cost of fraudulent medicines if you are to act in an
                undercover capacity.</strong></li>
    </ul>

</body>

</html>