<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide07/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>4. Investigating the Smuggling of Fraudulent Medic.</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>4. Investigating the Smuggling of Fraudulent Medicines</h3>

    <p>Investigating the smuggling of fraudulent medicines is generally like the investigation of any other crime.
        Often these investigations will be reactive, such as a result of a seizure. Others may be proactive, such as
        where you are targeting an organised criminal network or receive information from an informant. Irrespective of
        the type of investigation you undertake there are several important things to consider, including:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Have I identified the fraudulent medicines subject to my investigation?</li>
        <li>Have I confirmed that the medicine is fraudulent?</li>
        <li>Do I need to wait for the medicine to be forensically analysed before I can take action?</li>
        <li>Do I have a legal basis for my investigation?</li>
        <li>Have I identified the offences that have been/suspect of being committed?</li>
        <li>Do I have sufficient resources to undertake the investigation?</li>
        <li>What are my department's procedures?</li>
        <li>Have I identified a suspect for the crime?</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Once you do this you will need to plan your investigation. You should prepare an investigation plan whether your
        investigation is reactive or proactive.</p>

    <p>Some investigation plans may be very comprehensive, while others may be only 1 page. For all criminal cases your
        investigation plan should as a minimum include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Relevant legislation and offence(s) committed?</li>
        <li>Suspect (if identified)?</li>
        <li>Resources you will need, human, financial and material?</li>
        <li>Does this case have a transnational component?</li>
        <li>Other agencies that may assist you.</li>
        <li>Forensic analysis of the fraudulent medicine.</li>
        <li>Identify relevant investigative methods;</li>
        <li>Interviews.</li>
        <li>Surveillance – physical and electronic.</li>
        <li>Undercover.</li>
        <li>Technical.</li>
        <li>Controlled delivery.</li>
        <li>Informants.</li>
        <li>Crime Scene.</li>
        <li>Analytical support</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Given the insidious nature of this crime and the potential devastating effects it can have on the community you
        should utilise the full range of tools at your disposal to investigate the fraudulent smuggling of medicines.</p>

</body>

</html>