<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>Introduction</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<p><span style="display:none"></span>Introduction</p>

<p>It is estimated that 1 in 10 drugs sold in developing countries is fake or substandard, leading to tens of thousands of deaths every year, particularly amongst children. As much of 50% of drugs sold online drugs are also fake as are much of the medicines sold by street vendors.</p>

<p>The smuggling of fraudulent medicines is a huge criminal problem estimated as being worth as much as $30 billion per year. These sales have been linked to organised crime and terrorist groups and also facilitate other crimes such as fraud, identity theft and money laundering.</p>

<p>The smuggling of fraudulent medicines is an insidious crime that targets the poorest members of our global community. It is the developing world which suffers the most from the smuggling of fraudulent medicine and the devastating effects it can have on communities.</p>

<p>Th smuggling of fraudulent medicines is also a huge problem in South East Asia due to its proximity to the largest suppliers of fraudulent medicines, India and China. Successful detection of smuggled fraudulent medicines can save thousands of lives in your country, even the lives of family and friends.</p>

<p>You should carry this field guide with you while you are on duty. It contains quick-reference tools to address situations you are likely to experience in the course of your duty.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>